# STA207_Project

Coronavirus disease 2019, more commonly referred as COVID-19, was a new strain of the coronavirus family. Soon after the discovery of the first case of human infection in Wuhan, China in December 2019, the virus quickly took over the world, infecting hundreds of millions of people. COVID-19, especially at the beginning of its outbreak, was rather fatal, as many of the infected were the elderly and the ones with compromised immune system. Half of a million lives in the world was taken away within the first six months, and almost a quarter of that was from the US. Fortunately, COVID-19 vaccines started to become available in the US at the end of 2020. Over the next few months, as more and more people got vaccinated, daily cases and daily death number started to decrease, and the mortality rate became more stable.

As COVID-19 has been so prevalent, and its effect deeply ingrained in our life, there are too much intricacies so that it is almost impossible to study every aspect of the pandemic. In this project, the focus is on the 58 counties in California and the mortality rate of COVID-19 in each county derived from publicly available data on the CDC website. Our interest lies in whether there is a clear relationship between mortality rates of the counties and their demographical statistics such as population and per capita income. The result of this study can help the authorities adjust strategies on resource distribution and policy making. For instance, if a county with a lower income level has high mortality rate, more medical resources and better healthcare policies could help alleviate the circumstance.
